Presentation Title:  Bitcoin: Magical Internet money
Audience: Tech enthusiasts, consumers, computer science students, online shoppers                                                     
Presentation Purpose:  After my presentation the audience will know what bitcoins are, the world economy with respect to bitcoins, currencies and how their value functions at a very abstract level and how to buy bitcoins
Sources Cited:  bitcoin.org
INTRODUCTION


   1. Attention Getter:
 This is a 100 canadian dollar bill. What that means is that this will buy you a hundred canadian dollars worth of goods here in Canada. But that doesn't mean it'll buy you the same amount in any other country.
   1. Audience Motivation:  
In fact, the value of this note is guaranteed by the government of canada, which in the face of economic or socio-political pressures can buckle and leave this piece of paper worthless by ceasing to exist or by printing off a lot of notes. 
Also Imagine I were to travel somewhere else or send money to a relative in another country, after currency conversion rates I'd have significantly less of that hundred left after banks and exchange authorities took their cut.
   1. Preview: 
So that's the problem, i'm going to tell you about the solution, how it works and give you a couple other reasons why you want to use it


DISCUSSION


   1. What is Bitcoin:
* Internet currency
* No physical representation
* Can only be used on the internet or via networked devices


Transition + credibility:
        But how can you have a currency exist without a central backer? For example facebook runs the servers that power it. I've read a plethora of research papers on this matter, glanced at the code powering bitcoin and used them.
Lets take a quick look at how it works.


1. How it works i.e the bitcoin protocol:
* Decentralized - everyone runs a networked server
* Created via a process called mining -> transaction verification and logging creates new coins


Transition: So I bought a bitcoin last summer


1. Where to buy
* Localbitcoins.com


        Transition: It was $100 then and as you can see it’s worth a lot more now, wish I hadn't spent it. Finally there’s also the points I mentioned before, namely:
 
1. Why use Bitcoins + recap:
      1. No transaction fees
      2. No arbitrary limits on your account
      3. No fine print or hidden fees
      4. Paypal integration (start with ‘also’ since new info)
 
CONCLUSION


Memorable Statement: Welcome to the new global economy.