\n Hacker culture and the Anarchists cookbook\n During the 60’s a lot of countercultural movements started in America in response to the war in Vietnam. There were many countercultural groups vying for attention, the hippies, the hackers & the anarchists to name a few. There was a lot of overlap between hacker culture and anarchist culture, and this book is one example of such. Although this book contained recipes for domestic resistance, it also had a large technological side to it and discusses ‘phreaking’ in detail. Phreaking is slang used to describe the activity of a culture of people who study, experiment with, explore and potentially exploit telecommunications systems. The term hacker is a homonym and can mean a skilled computer expert using his domain knowledge to overcome problems but has also been used in a negative sense to describe individuals on the ‘wrong’ side of the law exploiting computer systems. \n \n \n ---\n \n Apple Computers Inc\n \n As we noted before, the Anarchists cookbook detailed exploitation of telecommunication systems. This was often done using whats called a “blue box”, a small homemade electronics device with a number pad and speaker that could mimic control frequencies allowing the user to make free phone calls from payphones for example. But here’s a fun fact, Jobs and Wozniak who would go on to found Apple computers actually started by manufacturing these “blue boxes”. \n “Secrets of the Little Blue Box”\n But the links dont end there. The Anarchists cookbook also advocated the use of mind expanding psychedelics and provided (unreliable/defunct/incorrect) recipes for the manufacture of LSD a strong hallucinogen and entheogen. Steve Jobs went on to advocate the use of this chemical in his Stanford commencement speech. \n “Steve Jobs’ 2005 Stanford Commencement Address” (video)\n Your task: Is there a valid link between the Anarchists Cookbook and the countercultural movement of the 60s and the birth of Apple computers? Did Apple computers arise from the countercultural movement of those times?\n Task explanation: The reader should be able to link similarities in the ethos of early Apple and the Anarchist cookbook authors. The reader may gain an understanding of the importance of the countercultural movement on the beginnings of the computer industry we know today, or may instead argue against the influence of the anarchist movement on hacker culture by perhaps showcasing how modern Apple is different from early Apple. \n \n \n ---\n \n Web 1.0: ARPAnet\n \n Another important development occurring during these times was the government funded experiment called ARPAnet. ARPAnet can be described as a primitive form of the internet we know today, and many underlying protocols that powered ARPAnet were foundational in the creation of todays internet. ARPAnet was first established in 1969 and grew rapidly with more and more computers being added to the network. It was eventually decommissioned in 1990, here is a poem written in lamentation. You can click on “Vinton Cerf” and read more about the author.\n “Requiem of the ARPANET”\n It was the first, and being first, was best,\n but now we lay it down to ever rest.\n Now pause with me a moment, shed some tears.\n For auld lang syne, for love, for years and years\n of faithful service, duty done, I weep.\n Lay down thy packet, now, O friend, and sleep.\n - Vinton Cerf\n The following link details the protocols in effect and how MIT existed on the early ARPAnet and some interesting guidelines for its use. \n “MIT primer on using ARPAnet from their AI lab”\n A notable quote form the above document:\n It is considered illegal to use the ARPANet for anything which is not in direct support of Government business … personal messages to other ARPANet subscribers (for example, to arrange a get-together or check and say a friendly hello) are generally not considered harmful … Sending electronic mail over the ARPANet for commercial profit or political purposes is both anti-social and illegal. By sending such messages, you can offend many people, and it is possible to get MIT in serious trouble with the Government agencies which manage the ARPANet.\n Your task: What challenges prevented the widespread adoption of ARPAnet? Would you be happy and able to use ARPAnet as you use the internet today?\n Task explanation: The reader will gain an understanding of the first version of the web and it’s shortcomings. It is not specified why ARPAnet was decommissioned in 1990, I hope the readers can derive their own conclusions as to why that happened, both technological and philosophical. \n \n \n ---\n \n Web 2.0: Tim Berners-Lee, HTTP & W3C\n \n Tim Berners-Lee is best known as the inventor of the World Wide Web. He is credited with the first implementation of the HTTP protocol which powers the web today. Most websites you visit will have “http://” in front of its domain name, this signifies that the website data is fetched and displayed in accordance with the HTTP protocol from a backend server controlled by the website owners. He is also credited with the creation of the W3C or World Wide Web Consortium which oversees the continued development of the Web. Read this brief history walkthrough and a description of the W3C from W3C:\n A Little History of the World Wide Web\n What is the W3C?\n You task: What does it mean to invent the internet? Does Tim Berners-Lee control the internet? Does the W3C control the internet?\n Task Explanation: This task should help the reader understand the nature of protocol and software development and gain an appreciation of the philanthropic nature of Tim’s work. This should also allow us to segway into the topic of open source software by understanding how the internet is “free” and not controlled by anyone even though the protocols powering it were written by people. \n \n \n ---\n \n Open source software\n \n The development of software today looks quite different from the past. Programmers no longer work in silos, thanks to the accessibility of the internet and how it connects everyone. Open source software is basically software who’s underlying code is open to the public to view and suggest modifications to.\n  Open source software development allows collaborative development from many independent sources and generates a more diverse scope of design perspectives than one company is capable of developing or sustaining long term. The widespread adoption of open source software has been credited with billions in savings to consumers and with improved development velocity in the industry. \n Github has become a standard for open source collaboration. Here’s a link to githubs trending developers page, see any companies or people you recognize?\n Github Trending Developers\n You’ll notice there are fortune 100 companies that are basically giving away for free software that most likely cost hundreds of thousands of dollars to develop. \n And here is a link to the OSI definition of open source. The OSI is similar to W3C except their focus is open source software instead of internet protocols. \n The open source definition\n You task: Are there any similarities between the modern open source software movement and the beginnings of the web and W3C?\n Task explanation: The reader should be able to see the overlapping ideas between the creation of the internet and open source software today. Furthermore the reader should now be able to see similarities in the ethos and activities of W3C and the OSI. The magnitude of investment in open source software should also become apparent. This helps us move onto our next point exploring the evolution of hacker culture. \n \n \n ---\n \n Hackathons\n \n Hackathons are a new trend in the hacker subculture. These are usually 1 or 2 day events where programmers meet, collaborate and try to build a working prototype of a software or hardware idea they have in a limited period of time. People often work through the night attempting to win prizes and a caffeine addiction. \n Read this piece on hackathons from wired magazine:\n “The hackathon is on: pitching and programming the next killer app”\n There’s a local hackathon hosted at the University of Waterloo every year called Hack the North.\n “Hack the North: Canada’s biggest hackathon, at the University of Waterloo”\n Hackathons show the evolution of hacker culture, from being a subculture of the countercultural movement, to a mainstream movement with more accessibility and corporate sponsorship.\n Your task: Do you think these changes in hacker culture are beneficial or not?\n Task explanation: The reader may argue either that becoming mainstream is a great thing to happen to hacker culture, or that it represents a dilution of the original hacker culture and does not benefit it. The takeaway though should still be an understanding of what hackathons are and what hacker culture today looks like. \n \n \n ---\n \n Aaron Swartz\n \n Aaron Swartz was an internet hacktivist responsible for a lot of philanthropic technological work. But his work eventually backfired and lead to a run in with the law, 50 years of imprisonment and $1 million in fines. \n Watch this video which describes his life and work:\n “The internets own boy” (video)\n Aaron was arrested for unauthorized bulk downloading of free articles from the Academic archive JSTOR. Aaron eventually committed suicide to escape the legal ramification of his actions. He was posthumously inducted into the Internet Hall of Fame for his innovative work. \n “Internet Hall of Fame 2013 Inductees”\n Your task: Carmen Ortiz the U.S. Attorney that levied the charges against Aaron said “stealing is stealing whether you use a computer command or a crowbar, and whether you take documents, data or dollars”. Do you agree with this statement or is there a difference between copying journal articles vs stealing a physical item?\n Task explanation: I hope the reader will see the difference between making a copy of a document so that those less fortunate can also read it and get the same education vs the theft of someones physical property. Even if the reader disagrees with my point of view here I hope the documentary and Aaron’s induction into the Internet hall of fame will convince them of the sentiments of the web towards him and his actions. \n Web 3.0: A decentralized web powered by the “blockchain”\n \n The web is broken, the creator of it seems to think so as well:\n “Tim Berners-Lee: I invented the web. Here are three things we need to change to save it” (Article by The Gaurdian)\n Net neutrality is a losing battle it seems with the FCC disregarding the opinions of the populace.\n “FCC gets more than 10 million comments on net neutrality” (Article, CNET)\n “FCC refuses to release information on net neutrality violations and complaints, technical details behind its website going down. Pai has said that the number of comments opposing or supporting his plan ‘is not as important as the substantive comments that are in the record’. ”\n But there’s good news! A better way to connect computers that allows it to be shielded from the malicious intent of agencies like the FCC, which protects internet hacktivists and democratizes the web. \n “The future is a decentralized internet”\n A lot of work is underway attempting to decentralize the web. The basic premise is nothing new, by means of shared data structures applications and data can be stored ephemerally without reliance on a central source. Users contribute resources such as computation and bandwidth by connecting to the network. Torrents have been around for a long time and can be seen as an example of a decentralized protocol. The advent of the concept of the “block-chain” allows one to add both incentivization and the ability to build a distributed computation framework to this peer to peer system i.e. users gain monetary rewards for contributing to the network and applications built on top of this new generation web are basically unstoppable as long as users choose to use them. \n Your task: View this article using web 3.0 technologies. You’ll notice that the front-end still uses the HTTP, but if you look at the code you wont find any of the text you’ll see. The text is hosted on the ethereum virtual machine on the rinkeby testnet instead of a classical backend server or as static content. \n Instructions: \n Task explanation: Demonstrate to the reader that web 3.0 is alive and growing today but also that it’s in its infancy. \n \n \n ---\n